Documentation/PageTranslations/Index.rst, before:

..  include:: /Includes.rst.txt

..  _page-translations:

=================
Translating pages
=================

When you want to translate a page in the page tree you create an
"alternative page language" record on that page. This contains fields
similar to that of the page record of the default language which you fill in
with translated content.

Select the :guilabel:`Language Comparison` function in the upper menu bar of the
:guilabel:`Web > Page` module. Then use the select box to create a new
translation of the page:

..  figure:: /Images/ManualScreenshots/Record/CreateNewTranslationOfPage.png
    :alt: Create a new translation of the page
    :class: with-shadow

    Create a new translation of the page

The form with the fields for the translated page will then be displayed:

..  figure:: /Images/ManualScreenshots/Record/AlternativePageLanguage.png
    :alt: Editing the page fields for an alternative page language
    :class: with-shadow

    Editing the page fields for an alternative page language

Most of the fields are the same as for the page of the default language. Below
the fields the content of the default language is shown.

If a page has no translation (that means, no "alternative page language" record),
its content cannot be translated, no matter how many system languages
have been defined.

Commit message:

There is no alternative language record (#110)
* There is no alternative language record

This has been changed. No language page record is created, but a normal page record in an alternative language.

* no alternative page language

* Update Documentation/PageTranslations/Index.rst

Co-authored-by: Garvin Hicking <blog@garv.in>

* new wording

* Update Documentation/PageTranslations/Index.rst

Co-authored-by: Garvin Hicking <blog@garv.in>

* Update Index.rst

It does not matter if they are all fields. The user will see them. That is enough.

* Update Index.rst

* Apply suggestions from code review

---------

Co-authored-by: Garvin Hicking <blog@garv.in>

Documentation/PageTranslations/Index.rst, after:

..  include:: /Includes.rst.txt

..  _page-translations:

=================
Translating pages
=================

In order to translate a page in the page tree, create a
copy of it with a new language relation. Use the module :guilabel:`Page` and on the top of the right side 
:guilabel:`Language Comparison` and the lower dropdown :guilabel:`Create a new translation of this page`. 
As soon as you choose a language of this dropdown the translation process will start with the copy of this page.

The page copy will be generated in the default language with page property fields like `title` or `description` prefixed by a text similar to "[Translate to Language X:]". 
The translated content needs to be put here, replacing the placeholder text (including the prefix and 
the copied default language contents).
             
Select the :guilabel:`Language Comparison` function in the upper menu bar of the
:guilabel:`Web > Page` module. Then use the select box to create a new
translation of the page:

..  figure:: /Images/ManualScreenshots/Record/CreateNewTranslationOfPage.png
    :alt: Create a new translation of the page
    :class: with-shadow

    Create a new translation of the page

The form with the fields for the translated page will then be displayed:

..  figure:: /Images/ManualScreenshots/Record/AlternativePageLanguage.png
    :alt: Editing the page fields for an alternative page language
    :class: with-shadow

    Editing the page fields for an alternative page language

Most of the fields are the same as for the page of the default language. Below
the fields the content of the default language is shown.

As long as a page has no translated page record,
its contents cannot be translated, no matter how many system languages
have been defined.
