Documentation/LocalizedContent/Index.rst, before:

.. include:: ../Includes.txt


.. _localized-content:

Localized content
-----------------

There are two strategies for handling the translation of content on pages:

-  **Connected mode:** Translating content will create a direct connection between the original
   language and the language you translate to. This means that moving an
   element or setting meta information like start- or endtime will be taken
   from the original content and you will not be able to set these values
   on a translated content element. Translated records will hold the
   connection to their original language record in the "l10n_parent" field.
   This mode is best for a strict translation workflow.

-  **Free mode:** Copying content will take the content elements from the source language
   and create copies in a different language. This means that you will be able
   to move content elements around freely, but you will not have the benefit of
   being able to compare changes made in the source language later on.
   Use this mode, when the translated pages content can largely differ from
   the original language and you want to have that freedom in designing your
   translated website.

When you start translating a page, the **WEB > Page** module will
ask you about this choice.

.. figure:: ../Images/LocalizedContentTranslationWizard.png
   :alt: The translation wizard showing localization strategies

   The translation wizard asks for a choice of localization strategy


The "Translate" button corresponds to the connected mode, the "Copy"
button to the free mode. Furthers details on how to proceed with
translations are found in the :ref:`Editor's Tutorial <t3editors:languages>`.


.. _localized-connected-content:

Connected content
"""""""""""""""""

If you opted for the connected content strategy, this is the default way
that translated pages will be handled in the frontend and requires
no further configuration in the site config.
In the site config, the fallbackType "strict" would look like this:

.. code-block:: yaml

   languages:
     -
       # ... other language settings ...
       fallbackType: strict

In this connected mode, TYPO3 will first internally fetch the records of the
default language, then overlay them with the target language. If a record is
not translated into the target language, then it is discarded and not shown at all.

The German version will be reduced to the actually translated elements:

.. figure:: ../Images/LocalizedContentNoOverlay.png
   :alt: English and German translation without overlays



Another way to view "connected" content in the frontend is by creating a fallback
chain. For this we have to adjust the site configuration and provide a comma separated
list of fallback languages:

.. code-block:: yaml

   languages:
     -
       # ... other language settings ...
       fallbackType: fallback
       # 1 = Danish, 0 = English
       fallbacks: '1,0'

In this mode, TYPO3 will also first internally fetch the records of the
default language and then overlay them with the target language. If no translation
exists for the target language, it will now go from left to right through the
fallback chain and first try to find a translation for the languageId 1 (Danish) and
if that is a miss as well, fall back to languageId 0 (English).

.. figure:: ../Images/LocalizedContentTranslationOverlay.png
   :alt: English and German translation with overlays

   The English version and its German translation, with overlays

.. warning::

   If you want to use the "connected content" paradigm in conjunction with the
   :ref:`"Hide default translation of the page" <localization-overview-hide-default-language>`
   setting, you will need to provide placeholder content elements
   in the default language and translate them, since the whole frontend
   rendering process starts from the default language in such a configuration.

.. _localized-content-free-content:

Free content
""""""""""""

With the free mode content strategy, the site config will have to be
adjusted accordingly:

.. code-block:: yaml

   languages:
     -
       # ... other language settings ...
       fallbackType: free

This means, TYPO3 will directly fetch the translated records and not care
about the records in the default language at all.

.. tip::
    For more information on how to add languages and configure their
    behaviour in the site configuration, please see
    :ref:`Adding Languages <sitehandling-addinglanguages>`


.. _localized-content-all-language:

The "All" language
""""""""""""""""""

When using overlays, it becomes possible to use a particular
language called "All", which will be automatically visible across all
translations. The uid of that particular language is "-1".

.. figure:: ../Images/LocalizedContentAllLanguageDefined.png
   :alt: Content element in "All" language

   A content element valid for all languages

It is also marked with the special language icon in the **WEB > Page**
module:

.. figure:: ../Images/LocalizedContentAllLanguagePageModule.png
   :alt: "All" language in the Page Module

   An "All" language content element displayed in the Web > Page

Note that no "Translate" button appears, the new content element
is valid for all languages.

Commit message:

[TASK] Add border/shadow to localized content FE preview

Documentation/LocalizedContent/Index.rst, after:

.. include:: ../Includes.txt


.. _localized-content:

Localized content
-----------------

There are two strategies for handling the translation of content on pages:

-  **Connected mode:** Translating content will create a direct connection between the original
   language and the language you translate to. This means that moving an
   element or setting meta information like start- or endtime will be taken
   from the original content and you will not be able to set these values
   on a translated content element. Translated records will hold the
   connection to their original language record in the "l10n_parent" field.
   This mode is best for a strict translation workflow.

-  **Free mode:** Copying content will take the content elements from the source language
   and create copies in a different language. This means that you will be able
   to move content elements around freely, but you will not have the benefit of
   being able to compare changes made in the source language later on.
   Use this mode, when the translated pages content can largely differ from
   the original language and you want to have that freedom in designing your
   translated website.

When you start translating a page, the **WEB > Page** module will
ask you about this choice.

.. figure:: ../Images/LocalizedContentTranslationWizard.png
   :alt: The translation wizard showing localization strategies

   The translation wizard asks for a choice of localization strategy


The "Translate" button corresponds to the connected mode, the "Copy"
button to the free mode. Furthers details on how to proceed with
translations are found in the :ref:`Editor's Tutorial <t3editors:languages>`.


.. _localized-connected-content:

Connected content
"""""""""""""""""

If you opted for the connected content strategy, this is the default way
that translated pages will be handled in the frontend and requires
no further configuration in the site config.
In the site config, the fallbackType "strict" would look like this:

.. code-block:: yaml

   languages:
     -
       # ... other language settings ...
       fallbackType: strict

In this connected mode, TYPO3 will first internally fetch the records of the
default language, then overlay them with the target language. If a record is
not translated into the target language, then it is discarded and not shown at all.

The German version will be reduced to the actually translated elements:

.. figure:: ../Images/LocalizedContentNoOverlay.png
   :alt: English and German translation without overlays
   :class: with-border with-shadow



Another way to view "connected" content in the frontend is by creating a fallback
chain. For this we have to adjust the site configuration and provide a comma separated
list of fallback languages:

.. code-block:: yaml

   languages:
     -
       # ... other language settings ...
       fallbackType: fallback
       # 1 = Danish, 0 = English
       fallbacks: '1,0'

In this mode, TYPO3 will also first internally fetch the records of the
default language and then overlay them with the target language. If no translation
exists for the target language, it will now go from left to right through the
fallback chain and first try to find a translation for the languageId 1 (Danish) and
if that is a miss as well, fall back to languageId 0 (English).

.. figure:: ../Images/LocalizedContentTranslationOverlay.png
   :alt: English and German translation with overlays
   :class: with-border with-shadow

   The English version and its German translation, with overlays

.. warning::

   If you want to use the "connected content" paradigm in conjunction with the
   :ref:`"Hide default translation of the page" <localization-overview-hide-default-language>`
   setting, you will need to provide placeholder content elements
   in the default language and translate them, since the whole frontend
   rendering process starts from the default language in such a configuration.

.. _localized-content-free-content:

Free content
""""""""""""

With the free mode content strategy, the site config will have to be
adjusted accordingly:

.. code-block:: yaml

   languages:
     -
       # ... other language settings ...
       fallbackType: free

This means, TYPO3 will directly fetch the translated records and not care
about the records in the default language at all.

.. tip::
    For more information on how to add languages and configure their
    behaviour in the site configuration, please see
    :ref:`Adding Languages <sitehandling-addinglanguages>`


.. _localized-content-all-language:

The "All" language
""""""""""""""""""

When using overlays, it becomes possible to use a particular
language called "All", which will be automatically visible across all
translations. The uid of that particular language is "-1".

.. figure:: ../Images/LocalizedContentAllLanguageDefined.png
   :alt: Content element in "All" language

   A content element valid for all languages

It is also marked with the special language icon in the **WEB > Page**
module:

.. figure:: ../Images/LocalizedContentAllLanguagePageModule.png
   :alt: "All" language in the Page Module

   An "All" language content element displayed in the Web > Page

Note that no "Translate" button appears, the new content element
is valid for all languages.
