Documentation/LocalizationOverview/Index.rst, before:

..  include:: /Includes.rst.txt

..  _localization-overview:

=====================
Localization overview
=====================

..  contents::
    :local:


Introduction
============

You can get a complete overview of the page tree and page
translations by using the :guilabel:`Web > Info` module and choosing
the :guilabel:`Localization Overview` function.

..  figure:: /Images/ManualScreenshots/InfoModule/LocalizationOverviewIntroductionPackage.png
    :alt: Localization Overview in Web > Info module
    :class: with-shadow

    Overview of existing translations in a blank Introduction Package

All the green entries indicate which languages the respective page is available
in. The gray areas mean that no translation is available, but access to the
page specifying this language is tolerated. It is also fast
to create new translations from this module: use the checkboxes and hit
the :guilabel:`Create new translation headers` button.

..  figure:: /Images/ManualScreenshots/InfoModule/LocalizationOverviewMassTranslation.png
    :alt: Translating several pages at once
    :class: with-shadow

    Creating translations for a whole selection of pages at once


..  _localization-overview-hide-missing-translations:

Hiding pages if no translation exist
====================================

If there is no translation of a page, it will still appear by default in the
website menu when this language is used. Here the home page of the Introduction
Package is in German (as can be seen from the translate page title in
:html:`<title>` tag), and all other (untranslated) pages still appear in the
menu, albeit in the default language (English).

..  figure:: /Images/ManualScreenshots/Frontend/LocalizationOverviewDefaultLanguageFallback.png
    :alt: The menu with untranslated pages
    :class: with-shadow

    The German home page with untranslated pages appearing in the menu

This behaviour can be changed. Let us edit the "Customizing" page.
In the :guilabel:`Language` tab, check the
:guilabel:`Hide page if no translation for current language exists`:

..  figure:: /Images/ManualScreenshots/Record/LocalizationOverviewHideIfNoTranslation.png
    :alt: Hiding the page if not translated
    :class: with-shadow

    Hide the page if it is not translated

This is reflected in the *Localization Overview*:

..  figure:: /Images/ManualScreenshots/InfoModule/LocalizationOverviewTranslationHidden.png
    :alt: Hidden translation in the overview
    :class: with-shadow

    The Localization Overview reflects the change in visibility of the "Customizing" page

From this it is clear that when viewing the website in
German the "Customizing" page is not accessible. The menu
reflects this in the frontend.

..  figure:: /Images/ManualScreenshots/Frontend/LocalizationOverviewMenuWithHiddenUntranslatedPage.png
    :alt: Hidden translation in the menu
    :class: with-shadow

    The "Customizing" page does not appear in the menu anymore

Trying to access the "Customizing" page directly with its ID will
produce an error.

..  figure:: /Images/ManualScreenshots/Frontend/LocalizationOverviewTranslationError.png
    :alt: Missing translation generates error
    :class: with-shadow

    An error message indicates a missing translation


..  _localization-overview-hide-default-language:

Hiding default translation of pages
===================================

If you want pages *only* in the alternative languages you must still
create a default language page in the page tree which simply acts as a
placeholder. Setting this status is done by selecting the checkbox
:guilabel:`Hide default translation of page`:

..  figure:: /Images/ManualScreenshots/Record/LocalizationOverviewHideDefaultLanguage.png
    :alt: Hiding the page in default language
    :class: with-shadow

    Hide the page in the default language

This is reflected in the *Localization Overview*:

..  figure:: /Images/ManualScreenshots/Record/LocalizedContentAllLanguageDefined.png
    :alt: Hidden default language in the overview
    :class: with-shadow

    The Localization Overview shows the page as being unavailable in the default language

..  note::
    The page also appears as being unavailable in Danish, because Danish falls
    back to English and English is not available.

On the web site, the menu now looks like this in German:

..  figure:: /Images/ManualScreenshots/Frontend/LocalizationOverviewHideDefaultLanguageMenuGerman.png
    :alt: German menu with language-specific page
    :class: with-shadow

    The German-specific page shows up in the German version of the web site

and in English:

..  figure:: /Images/ManualScreenshots/Frontend/LocalizationOverviewHideDefaultLanguageMenuEnglish.png
    :alt: English menu not showing language-specific page
    :class: with-shadow

    The German-specific page does not show up in the default version of the web site

Trying to access the "Nur für Deutschland" page in the default language will
yield an error.

Hiding pages in the default language is probably a rare thing to do,
but it is possible to imagine cases where the topic of a page or
section is only relevant in one of the alternative languages.
Especially, if a language of the site is not only a translation but may
serve subsidiaries of a company in a local context.


..  _localization-overview-inverse-hiding:

Inverse control of hidden translations
======================================

It is also possible to hide all untranslated pages by default
with a global setting:

..  code-block:: php
    :caption: EXT:site_package/ext_localconf.php

    $GLOBALS['TYPO3_CONF_VARS']['FE']['hidePagesIfNotTranslatedByDefault'] = 1;

The *Localization Overview* reflects this immediately:

..  figure:: /Images/ManualScreenshots/InfoModule/LocalizationOverviewInvertTranslationHandling.png
    :alt: All untranslated pages hidden by default
    :class: with-shadow

    The Localization Overview shows that all untranslated pages are hidden by default

Note how the behaviour of specific localization setting for the
"Customizing" pages has been inverted. We had earlier defined the page
to be hidden if no translation existed. Now it is forced to display
even if no translation exists (this is reflected by its background
being gray instead of red).

When editing the page properties, the label of the corresponding
checkbox has changed:

..  figure:: /Images/ManualScreenshots/Frontend/LocalizationOverviewShowEvenIfNoTranslation.png
    :alt: Show page even if no translation exists
    :class: with-shadow

    Inverted behaviour: choose to show the page even if no translation exists


.. _localization-overview-final-notes:

Final notes
===========

Summary of colors in the Localization Overview:

Green background
    Page is translated and viewable in this
    language. For translations it means that an active Alternative Page
    Language overlay record is present.

Red background
    Page *cannot* be viewed in this language and you
    will see an error message if you try. Menus should automatically
    filter out links to pages with this translation.

Gray background (not available for default language)
    Page will fall back to the specified fallback mode for content.
    It depends on the language fallback configuration set in your site
    configuration.

Commit message:

[FEATURE] Rename top-level module "web" to "content"
References: https://review.typo3.org/c/Packages/TYPO3.CMS/+/90955
Releases: main

Documentation/LocalizationOverview/Index.rst, after:

..  include:: /Includes.rst.txt

..  _localization-overview:

=====================
Localization overview
=====================

..  contents::
    :local:


Introduction
============

..  versionchanged:: 14.0
    The main module `Web` has been renamed to `Content`.
    See `Feature: #107628 - Improved backend module naming and structure <https://docs.typo3.org/permalink/changelog:feature-107628-1729026000>`_


You can get a complete overview of the page tree and page
translations by using the :guilabel:`Content > Info` module and choosing
the :guilabel:`Localization Overview` function.

..  figure:: /Images/ManualScreenshots/InfoModule/LocalizationOverviewIntroductionPackage.png
    :alt: Localization Overview in "Content > Info" module
    :class: with-shadow

    Overview of existing translations in a blank Introduction Package

All the green entries indicate which languages the respective page is available
in. The gray areas mean that no translation is available, but access to the
page specifying this language is tolerated. It is also fast
to create new translations from this module: use the checkboxes and hit
the :guilabel:`Create new translation headers` button.

..  figure:: /Images/ManualScreenshots/InfoModule/LocalizationOverviewMassTranslation.png
    :alt: Translating several pages at once
    :class: with-shadow

    Creating translations for a whole selection of pages at once


..  _localization-overview-hide-missing-translations:

Hiding pages if no translation exist
====================================

If there is no translation of a page, it will still appear by default in the
website menu when this language is used. Here the home page of the Introduction
Package is in German (as can be seen from the translate page title in
:html:`<title>` tag), and all other (untranslated) pages still appear in the
menu, albeit in the default language (English).

..  figure:: /Images/ManualScreenshots/Frontend/LocalizationOverviewDefaultLanguageFallback.png
    :alt: The menu with untranslated pages
    :class: with-shadow

    The German home page with untranslated pages appearing in the menu

This behaviour can be changed. Let us edit the "Customizing" page.
In the :guilabel:`Language` tab, check the
:guilabel:`Hide page if no translation for current language exists`:

..  figure:: /Images/ManualScreenshots/Record/LocalizationOverviewHideIfNoTranslation.png
    :alt: Hiding the page if not translated
    :class: with-shadow

    Hide the page if it is not translated

This is reflected in the *Localization Overview*:

..  figure:: /Images/ManualScreenshots/InfoModule/LocalizationOverviewTranslationHidden.png
    :alt: Hidden translation in the overview
    :class: with-shadow

    The Localization Overview reflects the change in visibility of the "Customizing" page

From this it is clear that when viewing the website in
German the "Customizing" page is not accessible. The menu
reflects this in the frontend.

..  figure:: /Images/ManualScreenshots/Frontend/LocalizationOverviewMenuWithHiddenUntranslatedPage.png
    :alt: Hidden translation in the menu
    :class: with-shadow

    The "Customizing" page does not appear in the menu anymore

Trying to access the "Customizing" page directly with its ID will
produce an error.

..  figure:: /Images/ManualScreenshots/Frontend/LocalizationOverviewTranslationError.png
    :alt: Missing translation generates error
    :class: with-shadow

    An error message indicates a missing translation


..  _localization-overview-hide-default-language:

Hiding default translation of pages
===================================

If you want pages *only* in the alternative languages you must still
create a default language page in the page tree which simply acts as a
placeholder. Setting this status is done by selecting the checkbox
:guilabel:`Hide default translation of page`:

..  figure:: /Images/ManualScreenshots/Record/LocalizationOverviewHideDefaultLanguage.png
    :alt: Hiding the page in default language
    :class: with-shadow

    Hide the page in the default language

This is reflected in the *Localization Overview*:

..  figure:: /Images/ManualScreenshots/Record/LocalizedContentAllLanguageDefined.png
    :alt: Hidden default language in the overview
    :class: with-shadow

    The Localization Overview shows the page as being unavailable in the default language

..  note::
    The page also appears as being unavailable in Danish, because Danish falls
    back to English and English is not available.

On the web site, the menu now looks like this in German:

..  figure:: /Images/ManualScreenshots/Frontend/LocalizationOverviewHideDefaultLanguageMenuGerman.png
    :alt: German menu with language-specific page
    :class: with-shadow

    The German-specific page shows up in the German version of the web site

and in English:

..  figure:: /Images/ManualScreenshots/Frontend/LocalizationOverviewHideDefaultLanguageMenuEnglish.png
    :alt: English menu not showing language-specific page
    :class: with-shadow

    The German-specific page does not show up in the default version of the web site

Trying to access the "Nur für Deutschland" page in the default language will
yield an error.

Hiding pages in the default language is probably a rare thing to do,
but it is possible to imagine cases where the topic of a page or
section is only relevant in one of the alternative languages.
Especially, if a language of the site is not only a translation but may
serve subsidiaries of a company in a local context.


..  _localization-overview-inverse-hiding:

Inverse control of hidden translations
======================================

It is also possible to hide all untranslated pages by default
with a global setting:

..  code-block:: php
    :caption: EXT:site_package/ext_localconf.php

    $GLOBALS['TYPO3_CONF_VARS']['FE']['hidePagesIfNotTranslatedByDefault'] = 1;

The *Localization Overview* reflects this immediately:

..  figure:: /Images/ManualScreenshots/InfoModule/LocalizationOverviewInvertTranslationHandling.png
    :alt: All untranslated pages hidden by default
    :class: with-shadow

    The Localization Overview shows that all untranslated pages are hidden by default

Note how the behaviour of specific localization setting for the
"Customizing" pages has been inverted. We had earlier defined the page
to be hidden if no translation existed. Now it is forced to display
even if no translation exists (this is reflected by its background
being gray instead of red).

When editing the page properties, the label of the corresponding
checkbox has changed:

..  figure:: /Images/ManualScreenshots/Frontend/LocalizationOverviewShowEvenIfNoTranslation.png
    :alt: Show page even if no translation exists
    :class: with-shadow

    Inverted behaviour: choose to show the page even if no translation exists


.. _localization-overview-final-notes:

Final notes
===========

Summary of colors in the Localization Overview:

Green background
    Page is translated and viewable in this
    language. For translations it means that an active Alternative Page
    Language overlay record is present.

Red background
    Page *cannot* be viewed in this language and you
    will see an error message if you try. Menus should automatically
    filter out links to pages with this translation.

Gray background (not available for default language)
    Page will fall back to the specified fallback mode for content.
    It depends on the language fallback configuration set in your site
    configuration.
