.. include:: ../../Includes.txt


.. _basic-setup-typoscript-configuration:

TypoScript configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A working multilingual site implies some TypoScript configuration
in order to function properly. This is what is defined in the
Introduction Package:

.. code-block:: typoscript

	# Localization:
	config {
		linkVars = L
		sys_language_uid = 0
		sys_language_overlay = 1
		sys_language_mode = content_fallback
		language = en
		locale_all = en_US.UTF-8
		htmlTag_setParams = lang="en" dir="ltr" class="no-js"
	}
	[globalVar = GP:L = 1]
		config {
			sys_language_uid = 1
			language = de
			locale_all = de_DE.UTF-8
			htmlTag_setParams = lang="de" dir="ltr" class="no-js"
		}
	[global]
	[globalVar = GP:L = 2]
		config {
			sys_language_uid = 2
			language = da
			locale_all = da_DK.UTF-8
			htmlTag_setParams = lang="da" dir="ltr" class="no-js"
		}
	[global]

The properties used in the above snippet are discussed below,
one by one. A link to the TypoScript reference is given for each of them.

The :code:`config.sys_language_overlay` and :code:`config.sys_language_mode`
properties are described in the :ref:`Localization modes chapter <basic-setup-localization-modes>`.


.. _basic-setup-typoscript-configuration-linkvars:

The "&L" variable
"""""""""""""""""

The :code:`L` is used to pass the value of the language in the
URLs. Although it is not a requirement to use :code:`L`,
it is highly recommended because it is a common practice in the
community and may even be hard-coded in some places.

:code:`config.linkVars = L` means that :code:`&L=x` will be added as GET request
variable to every link generated by TYPO3 CMS.

:ref:`TypoScript Reference <t3tsref:setup-config-linkvars>`


.. _basic-setup-typoscript-configuration-sys-language-uid:

config.sys\_language\_uid
"""""""""""""""""""""""""

The :code:`config.sys_language_uid` property indicates to which system
language each possible value of the :code:`L` GET variable
corresponds (with :code:`0` for the default language).
TypoScript conditions are used to make the definition vary
with the value of the GET variable. These conditions also
imply separate caches, which explains how caching supports
and recognizes a change in the :code:`L` variable.

:ref:`TypoScript Reference <t3tsref:setup-config-sys-language-uid>`


.. _basic-setup-typoscript-configuration-language:

config.language
"""""""""""""""

This setting configures the system "language key" to
be used for the language. This is used to select labels from XLIFF
files. Setting this should make frontend plugins
respond by showing labels from the correct language (requires
:ref:`installation of the corresponding language packs <t3inside:translations>`).

:ref:`TypoScript Reference <t3tsref:setup-config-language>`


.. _basic-setup-typoscript-configuration-locale-all:

config.locale\_all
""""""""""""""""""

Configures the locale which influences how some values from
PHP are formatted in the output, e.g. dates formatted using :code:`strftime()`
will output month/day names in the chosen language.

:ref:`TypoScript Reference <t3tsref:setup-config-locale-all>`


.. _basic-setup-typoscript-configuration-htmltag-setparams:

config.htmlTag_setParams
""""""""""""""""""""""""

Setting the "lang" and "dir" attributes using this property
will help with both browser rendering and content indexing.

:ref:`TypoScript Reference <t3tsref:setup-config-htmltag-setparams>`

