Documentation/SettingUpLanguages/Index.rst, before:

.. include:: /Includes.rst.txt


.. _languages:

Setting up languages
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Each language into which you want your web site to be translated
must be defined explicitely. These come in addition to the so-called
"default" language. That default language is whatever you decide it
to be.

The system languages are added on the root level of the page tree.
The Introduction Package comes with Danish and German predefined.

.. figure:: ../Images/SystemLanguages.png
   :alt: List of system languages

   Viewing the list of system languages

The record for the Danish language record looks like this:

.. figure:: ../Images/SystemLanguageDetail.png
   :alt: Details of a system languages

   Input form for a system language

Once you have defined at least one system language,
you have the option of translating pages and content.
For example, the **WEB > List** module will show links
for translating, provided you have translated the page
and checked the "Localization view" at the bottom of
the scren.

.. figure:: ../Images/LocalizeLinks.png
   :alt: Content elements with localize links

   The Web > List view, with page translations and localize links for content elements

Translated elements appears nested "under" their default language
parent element in the **WEB > List** view.

.. figure:: ../Images/NestedTranslations.png
   :alt: Nested translations

   The Web > List view shows translations nested under their parent

Commit message:

add note about changes (#68)
* add note about changes

resolve #40

* Update Documentation/SettingUpLanguages/Index.rst

Co-authored-by: Chris Müller <2566282+brotkrueml@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Chris Müller <2566282+brotkrueml@users.noreply.github.com>

Documentation/SettingUpLanguages/Index.rst, after:

.. include:: /Includes.rst.txt


.. _languages:

Setting up languages
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. note::

    Steps shown on this page apply only to TYPO3 v9 and older versions.
    In TYPO3 v10 and up languages are configured differently.

Each language into which you want your web site to be translated
must be defined explicitely. These come in addition to the so-called
"default" language. That default language is whatever you decide it
to be.

The system languages are added on the root level of the page tree.
The Introduction Package comes with Danish and German predefined.

.. figure:: ../Images/SystemLanguages.png
   :alt: List of system languages

   Viewing the list of system languages

The record for the Danish language record looks like this:

.. figure:: ../Images/SystemLanguageDetail.png
   :alt: Details of a system languages

   Input form for a system language

Once you have defined at least one system language,
you have the option of translating pages and content.
For example, the **WEB > List** module will show links
for translating, provided you have translated the page
and checked the "Localization view" at the bottom of
the scren.

.. figure:: ../Images/LocalizeLinks.png
   :alt: Content elements with localize links

   The Web > List view, with page translations and localize links for content elements

Translated elements appears nested "under" their default language
parent element in the **WEB > List** view.

.. figure:: ../Images/NestedTranslations.png
   :alt: Nested translations

   The Web > List view shows translations nested under their parent
